(DOCSP-10665): Added Node Authentication Client Guide Page (#218)
mongodb/docs-realm: source/node/authentication.txt

.. _node-authenticate:

===================
Authenticate a User
===================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

.. _node-login:

MongoDB Realm provides developers with an API to log application user's
in and out using the same methods, regardless of the authentication

> provider the user was registered using.

Reviewer: nit: "the same methods" breaks down a little when we add in OAuth (which uses `logInWithRedirect()`)

also can we mention credentials and split this into a couple of sentences?

- The Node SDK allows users to log in with any enabled authentication provider
- The SDK uses a ``Credentials`` object to specify which provider to use
- The ``Credentials`` object also includes info required to authenticate with the provider (like an email address and password)

Author: Altered to: 
"MongoDB Realm provides developers with an API to log application users in and out with any enabled authentication provider. Pass in a credentials object to specify the authentication provider info to the login methods." 
which I think gets your points across. Let me know if not & if you have any specific phrasing you'd like

> .. list-table::

Reviewer: Can we introduce this table? What does it describe?

e.g.
```rst
The SDK provides the following methods for user authentication:

.. list-table::
   
   ...
```

Author: Fixed, verbatim

   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 10 90

   * - Method 
     - Usage
   * - ``<Realm.App instance>.logIn()``
     - Pass your credentials directly to the method, ``logIn()``, which you call on the Realm App instance. For example, running the script: "app.logIn(Realm.Credentials.emailPassword('<email>', '<password>'))" would log in a user created with an email/password authentication provider.
   * - ``<userInstance>.logOut()``

>      - The method ``logOut()`` is called on the user instance, and will log any user out, regardless of the authentication provider the user was registered using.

Reviewer: I think we can safely refer to the type/class names here instead of using angle bracket syntax. Should be a bit cleaner and closer to the final usage pattern. i.e.

- `App.logIn()`
- `User.logOut()`

Reviewer: - The descriptions here are a bit inconsistent ("Pass your credentials..." vs "The method is called...").
- "The method ... is called" is passive voice (called by _whom?_)
- Given that this is a quick overview table, I think we prefer shorter, snappier descriptions to more prescriptive ones.

What about something like this?

```rst
Call ``App.logIn()`` to log a user in with a ``Realm.Credentials`` object for an enabled authentication provider
```

Author: Fixed - almost verbatim. I did keep the 'for example' bit in and I think having a 'for example' doesn't hurt (and actually helps), especially because these aren't API docs.

Log In
------

.. _node-login-anonymous:

Anonymous
~~~~~~~~~

> The Anonymous authentication provider allows users to log in to your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The :doc:`Anonymous </authentication/anonymous>` authentication provider allows users to log in to your
```

> application without providing credentials. To do this, create an

Reviewer: "without providing credentials" is a bit iffy because they do still need to call `Realm.Credentials.anonymous()`

Maybe: "log in with ephemeral accounts that have no associated information"

Author: Altered it to: "The Anonymous Authentication provider allows users to log in to your application with short-term accounts that have no associated information." 
to avoid using the word ephemeral.

anonymous credential by calling "Realm.Credentials.anonymous()" and then

> pass in that credential to "<Realm.App instance>.logIn()".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
pass in that credential to "App.logIn()".
```
Same deal here as above, we can use `Realm.App.logIn()` or even just `App.logIn()`

.. admonition:: Anonymous Authentication
   :class: note
   
   To learn more about the configuration and use-cases of anonymous
   authentication read the :doc:`Anonymous Authentication

>    </authentication/anonymous>` doc.

Reviewer: Good thought here, but what if we just link to the provider in the opening text when we first mention it?

I added a suggestion to this effect.

Author: Fair idea, fixed to your suggestion.

.. tabs-realm-languages::
   
   .. tab::
      :tabid: javascript
      
      .. code-block:: javascript
        :emphasize-lines: 14,15

         const Realm = require("realm");
         const appId = "<appId>"; // Set Realm app ID here.
         const appConfig = {
           id: appId,
           url: "https://realm-dev.mongodb.com",
           timeout: 1000,
         };
 
         async function run() {
           let user;
           try {
             const app = new Realm.App(appConfig);
 
             const credentials = Realm.Credentials.anonymous(); // create an anonymous credential
             user = await app.logIn(credentials);
             
             console.log(`Logged in with the user: ${user.identity}`);
           } finally {
           }
         }
         run().catch(console.dir);

   .. tab::
      :tabid: typescript
      
      .. code-block:: typescript

.. _node-login-email-password:

Email/Password
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To log an existing email/password user into your application, create a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To log a registered and confirmed email/password user into your application, create a
```

nit but trying to get ahead of the inevitable confusion that goes hand in hand with email/password auth

credential by passing the email and password of the registered user to
the method "Realm.Credentials.emailPassword()" as parameters, and then

> calling "<Realm.App instance>.logIn()" with that credential.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
calling "App.logIn()" with that credential.
```
